##############################################################
Welcome to the NREL Global Climate Model Evaluation Repository
##############################################################

The interplay between energy, climate, and weather is becoming more complex as
our energy system becomes more sensitive to the impacts of weather events and
climate change due to increasing contributions of renewable energy generation
and electrified end uses. Energy system analyses commonly rely on
meteorological inputs to estimate renewable energy generation and energy
demand; however, these inputs rarely represent the estimated impacts of future
climate change. Climate models and publicly available climate change datasets
can be used for this purpose, but the selection of inputs from the myriad of
available models and datasets is a nuanced and subjective process. In this
work, we assess datasets from various global climate models (GCMs) from the
Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP6), evaluating their skills with
respect to the historical climate and comparing their future projections of
climate change. Previous work has presented similar GCM evaluations, but none
have presented variables and metrics specifically intended for comprehensive
energy systems analysis including impacts on energy demand, thermal cooling,
hydropower, water availability, solar energy generation, and wind energy
generation. We focus on GCM output meteorological variables that directly
affect these energy system components including the representation of extreme
values that can drive grid resilience events. The objective of this work is
not to recommend the best climate model and dataset for a given analysis, but
instead to provide a reference to facilitate the selection of climate models
and datasets in subsequent work.

The NREL software record for this repository is SWR-24-37

Acknowledgments
===============

This work was authored by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, operated by
Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308. Funding provided by the DOE Office of
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE), the DOE Office of Electricity
(OE), the DOE Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management (FECM), and the DOE
Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response (CESER). The
research was performed using computational resources sponsored by the DOE
Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy and located at the National
Renewable Energy Laboratory. The views expressed in the article do not
necessarily represent the views of the DOE or the U.S. Government. The U.S.
Government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication,
acknowledges that the U.S. Government retains a nonexclusive, paid-up,
irrevocable, worldwide license to publish or reproduce the published form of
this work, or allow others to do so, for U.S. Government purposes.
